# CS152ProjectDiscussion

## Discussion 

### Coding portion: 
We created our own dataset and augmented it by the functions we created from scratch to account for different brightness, balance the values of the steering angle, and add noise to the dataset.
We implemented multiple sequential convolutional neural networks using Keras API on the tensorflow package, varying the number and parameters of the convolutional layers.
The main parameter used to evaluate the model performance is the loss value, which is calculated as the absolute error value between the predicted and the actual steering angle. Another parameter is a boolean whether the car will crash or not when it’s running in the autonomous mode. The model will be tested on two different routes with varying difficulties and conditions.
A reach goal is quantizing the neural network to reduce the number of parameters and increase running speed so that the neural networks can be deployed on embedded systems. The efficiency of the quantization will be measured by comparing the running speed of the original model and the quantized model while keeping a negligible drop in accuracy.

### Essay portion: 
We will present a literature review and original analysis of self-driving car ethics through a lens of risk tolerance.
We will read existing critiques and discussions of self-driving car ethics and bring a new perspective through a different philosophical lens. 
We will support our claims using existing philosophical analysis using similar arguments, as well as empirical evidence about self-driving car safety. 
Topic of inductive risk: We will analyze how tolerance of risk plays into decision making for self-driving car production and analyze how engineers/designers can better reduce that risk.
Compared to other existing studies, we are taking a different approach to analyze ethics in self-driving cars, although we will be doing a literature review on existing work.


## Revision of Previous Content
Introduction
The development of deep neural network models has revolutionized the field of autonomous driving, providing a powerful tool for training autonomous cars to navigate and make decisions on the road. This project will leverage the power of deep neural networks to design a model capable of simulating human driving in a virtual environment with the help of open-source self-driving car simulators. Developing a self-driving car is a complex process that requires automating an array of human functions, such as perception of surroundings, following traffic laws, and decision-making. A typical self-driving car would incorporate many machine learning models with each model performing different functions; for instance, the self-driving car needs a computer-vision model to identify traffic lights and road signs as well as a reinforcement-learning model to make decisions, such as whether the car will take a turn. Also, the development of self-driving cars extends beyond the machine learning algorithms to entail development of sensors, radars, and hardware components that can provide accurate inputs to the machine learning models. We decided to use an open-source car simulator to focus only on the machine learning portion of the self-driving car development. 
Previous research has examined the development of self-driving cars using simulators. There are many open-source self-driving car simulators with each simulator having an edge over the others in particular areas and lagging behind in other areas. Some of the important factors to consider while picking a simulator are perception, localization, vehicle control, and creation of dynamic 3D virtual environments (Kaur et al.). The simulator we are using is UDACITY’s autonomous car simulator. Previous research that analyzed this simulator pointed out an important disadvantage, which is the absence of noise in the simulator environment making the simulator unrealistic in the real world (Duong). 
Nonetheless, the car simulator allows us to source the data by using the training mode, which is a game-like mode wherein we are put in different situations, and we take decisions to move the car depending on the surrounding environment; the model provides us with a complete dataset of the car surroundings, the decisions we took, and the result of each decision in different contexts. Using this data, we will design a deep-learning-based classification model for object detection and decision making. Four of the most common deep learning methods used in the development of self-driving cars are convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, auto-encoders, and deep reinforcement learning (Ni et al.). The problems the models need to solve include obstacle detection, scene classification and understanding, lane recognition, path planning, motion control, and traffic signs and lights recognition (Ni et al.). Previous research has put emphasis on safety by developing models capable of dealing with bad drivers of other cars, right of way laws, unstructured roads, pedestrians, and responsibility for actions (Shalev-Shwartz). 
The classification model we will use depends on convolutional neural networks to classify decisions to figure out the correct decision depending on the inputs. To test our model, we use the simulator in the test mode, which automatically runs our model on different test cases and provides us with an analysis of the results. The output of our model will be the steering angle for the car.

When developing self-driving cars, significant attention must be given to potential ethical issues they may face. A classic problem in the realm of self-driving cars is the trolley problem, where a self-driving car would have to choose between hitting and killing one pedestrian versus five. While the trolley problem is a challenging problem with many perspectives to address, self-driving cars may not have to address the problem directly and other potentially more important and tangible problems exist (Holstein et al.). In this paper, we seek to explore literature about ethical (and pragmatic) issues self driving cars may face and explore various theoretical frameworks to address them. For instance, we will be looking at Heather Douglas’ “Inductive Risk and Values in Science” to explore how developers of self-driving car algorithms must consider their levels of risk tolerance through their decision making processes. 

References: 
*  Douglas, H. (2000). Inductive Risk and Values in Science. Philosophy of Science, 67(4), 559–579. http://www.jstor.org/stable/188707 
* Duong, M.T., Do, T.D., Le, M.H. (2018). Navigating Self-Driving Vehicles Using Convolutional Neural Network. 2018 4th International Conference on Green Technology and Sustainable Development (GTSD), 607-610, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8595533.
* Goodall, N. J. (2016). Can you program ethics into a self-driving car?. IEEE Spectrum, 53(6). 28-58, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7473149.
* Holstein, T., Dodig-Crnkovic, G., Pelliccione, P. (2018). Ethical and Social Aspects of Self-Driving cars. 	 
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1802.04103
* Kaur, P., Taghavi, S., Tian, Z., Shi, W. (2021). A Survey on Simulators for Testing Self-Driving Cars. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=9499331&tag=1
* Karnouskos, S. (2020). Self-Driving Car Acceptance and the Role of Ethics. IEEE Transactions on Engineering Management, 67(2). 252-265, https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=8542947.
* Ni, J., Chen, Y., Chen, Y., Zhu, J., Ali, D., Weidong, C. (2020). A Survey on Theories and Applications for Self-Driving Cars Based on Deep Learning Methods. Applied Sciences, 10(8). https://doi.org/10.3390/app10082749
* Shalev-Shwartz, S., Shammah, S., & Shashua, A. (2017). On a formal model of safe and scalable self-driving cars. arXiv preprint arXiv:1708.06374.


